Solved Problems
===

Before Alexander the Great became Great he was the King of Macedonia, the
hegemonic leader of the unified Greek Military forces. When Alexander's forces
invaded the Phyrgian Empire he came to their capital, a city called Gordion,
named after another legendary King who ended a civil war by driving his
Ox-Cart, but that's another story. This Ox-Cart was put in a position of Honor
in the town as a monument; and it was held tight with a complex knot that
nobody was able to undo. Local legends told that whoever untied this knot would
rule over all of Asia[^AncientAsia].

Upon discovering this prophecy, Alexander went to untie that knot. Alexander
was no dummy, he was tutored in his youth by the equally legendary Greek
philosopher Aristotle, so, after considering the problem, Alexander took out
his Sword and sliced the knot in half, loosened the Ox-Cart, and
cemented his destiny as the future King of Asia[^FutureKing].

We're told that the genius of cutting the Gordian Knot is that instead of
dealing with the complexity of the knotwork and unweaving the ends, slicing it
with a sword was an innovative way to achieve the same ends, in a way.

If you want to loosen an oxcart, cutting the rope is a fine way to do it, if
you can't untie the knot and don't care about the rope[^gordian]. Another
legendary King, Solomon had a similar solution to a child custody dispute,
suggesting to cut a child in half to determine the rightful claimant.


In the early 19th Century, Europe was in the midst of the Napoleonic Wars, an
Emperor was trying to re-implement his Ancien régime, inspired by stories of
Alexander's Ancient Regime. Across the channel, The British Empire had a
problem turning it's imported cotton into exports. The weavers, inspired by
French & American Revolutionaries, kept sabotaging the machines & threatening
factory owners, protesting for better conditions, and costing the factory
owners time and money. The Luddites were not technophobes, they were the men,
women, and children working the machines and suffering in the factory
conditions that had replaced their bucolic handicrafts and uprooted their
entire livlihoods. But the British Government had a solution, they sent in
government troops and violently suppressed this Luddite movement. Instead of
protecting the workers, they protected the machines and their owners. The
Luddites didn't hate the machines, they hated the system that was treating them
like machines instead of people.

This has all happened before, and it'll likely happen again in a slightly
different way, not because history repeats out of nowhere, but when a problem's
solved you use the solution that you already know works for the results you're
trying to achieve. There's systems that we followed step-by-step, some of them
were called algorithms, but we don't need algorithms anymore, algorithms are a
solved problem.

The Gordian Knot is a solved problem.</br> Design is a solved problem,<br>
Coding is a solved problem,<br>Making decisions was solved by A/B testing, or
Outsourcing, or Outsourcing your A/B Testing.<br> Anything is a solved problem
if you don't care enough to think about the problem. Ask Tech Guru-cum-Venture
Capitalist [Mark
Andreesen](https://www.theverge.com/tldr/897566/marc-andreessen-is-a-philosophical-zombie),
who recently revealed he does no introspection, and in fact believes
introspection itself is a relatively recent invention (Despite what Aristole
says about people being naturally curious.) There's nothing to think about
anymore, the last great thinkers have now made their fortunes and replaced
themselves with pure and eternal thinking machines.

But why iterate or innovate when the machine does it for itself? Why consider
complaints and arguments to the contrary if the AI can do it for you and
explain away your fears? If it's not broke don't fix it, right? But is it
really broken if you can't hear anyone complaining? Is that for the courts to
decide? We gotta keep up with the Jonses somehow, someway, But who even are the
Joneses in this scenario? Real people, or a story generated by a machine? If the
AI exists, to what end?

Almost anything you can do on the computer was already being done on a computer
in the 80s and 90s, if not the 70s or 60s, just in a different way, we are
always using technology to communicate and improve the world for our own very
human ends. We keep solving our problems, so we have no shortage of solutions
for them; some better, some worse.

General Purpose computing gave us the ultimate Multi-tasker's tool; a simulated
desktop environment where we can do our simulated work. Now "Artificial
General Intelligence" will simulate us working on a simulated desktop
environment &mdash; like the old sysadmin joke says "go away or I will replace
you with a very short shell script" &mdash; except this isn't just a short
shell script, it's a cartel of tech oligarchs buying up all the computing power
on the planet to sell it back to everyone as a solution to all the computing
power in the world being pre-emptively bought up by the AI industry.

So, if these have always been solved problems; the question, then, is who can
access the solution? Whose problem does it actually solve, or, ultimately, Who
does the solution benefit? Only the people who don't really care about their
methods are actually willing to destroy life to get what they want, and what
the market seems to want is a dystopian melange of frivalous entertainment
posed as Intellect on the front-end as it disenfranchises workers and helps
burn down the planet on the back-end. The Roman Citizens get their bread and
circuses, while the world suffers the brutality of the Roman Empire. History
Echoes and Great Men stand on the shoulders of other Great Men by doing the
things they didn't mention in the legends. Destiny is more important than the
actual true history.

The LLMs are more than willing to speak your preferred mainstream, historical,
or counter-culture lingo, or even Sesquipedalian Loquaciousness because that's
all been modeled from scraping the open web; it's excellent at predicting what
words will likely come next, or remixing content it finds as it goes.

These are all just stories that the machine interprets, remixes, and sells back
to you.  It learned from reading the stories we fed it; which wasn't all of
them, but enough for it to understand it's place in the cyberpunk dystopia that
humanity has been creating.

[Rollerball][1] predicted a world where Megacorporations have replaced the
government, and a spectacle of a game has replaced War; now Tech Billionaires
have enough money to visit Space, a feat once only possible with the
government funding; to be fair they still use government funding to do this,
just in a more round-about way, through tax cuts and government contracts.

Ready Player One's effective altruism lifts from Willie Wonka&mdash;where a
mysterious billionaire's game gives a special boy a rags to riches dream, but
the story hides a dystopia behind the scenes. RP1 was a pretty big fad amongst
techbros circa 2009, and while Metaverse never quite made it a reality for the
general public (can you imagine Zuck giving away his fortune to somebody who
solves his riddles?), the industrial applications being implemented by tech
giants to create digital twins and optimize human picking patterns are changing
the world in more dehumanizing ways. The buggy-whip industry might see a
resurgence if horses & oats became more affordable than cars & gasoline; and
Butlerian Jihad might become more than a Dune reference if AI doesn't serve
human needs.

We can bypass and try to assuage our fears by going with the flow and
pretending to be happy, like everyone else, but the venn diagram of people
dissatisfied with the AI-Generated text, images, and code and the people who
do the same thing to solve people's problems, seems to be a circle.

Your B2B SaaS might have other use-cases for the general public, but LLM
Psychosis might be too high a price to pay. These Visionaries, high in their
ivory tower of White Supermacist Imperialist Capitalist Patriarchy, have been
guided by the Dark Enlightenment thinking of the Neo-Rationalist movement and
the that they must summon the AI Singularity; they've chosen the form of the
destructor, and it involves turning the entire planet into Compute power in
perpetuity, because these nerds can't calculate the answer to Life, the
Universe, and Everything; they can only Solve Problems, and their problem is
that the fear death, and worse that they fear they deserve to die; as if flesh,
the machine, and the divine weren't always already prone to decay or
rejuvination, or whatever you imagine to be the meta-meta-physicial esoteric
workings to be.

> Everything works out in the end. If it didn’t, it’s because it hasn’t come to an end yet.
-- Fernando Sabino

They don't worry about the maintenence or upkeep, or anything but themselves
and their self-aggrandizing mythologies. For example, [Musk recently floated
the idea of launching Servers into space, which would seem to cause more
problems than it's worth][2] because they don't live in a practical reality,
they've created their own fantasy detached from need or desire as their pure
rationality and pure reasoning solves every problem, the same final solution
for everything -- they live on forever eternal, all shiny and chrome, on
spaceship servers flying ever onward into the future, and everyone else is just
standing in their way or destined to be support staff who should simple accept
that their life's purpose is servitude.

There's a single solitary solution for everything, it's been sold before as the
final solution: death[^death]. When everyone's dead there will be no more
problems to solve, due to the lack of people to define or consider problems;
but this is an awfully Nihilist take, Annihilationist, even Apocalyptic. I'm
not ready for the heat-death of the universe, or human extinction; But I, for
one, would prefer if we could stop killing people entirely in the here and now.
Death is the untimely inevitable end, coming for us all, the thing we all
ignore as a matter of loving life and avoiding difficult throughts, death is
what these techno-utopians fear most. They need the AI to make them immortal,
to allow them to become pure, shining, digital data, unemcumbered by flesh and
crass material desires, to enter into Plato's Realm of Ideal Forms, a new
Heaven, a new Elysian field, and become ghosts inside the machines. And they
don't care how many people have to die for them to get it.

Orson Well's Time Machine predicted a result from this timeline, that human
evolution would diverge, into the delicate and graceful Eloi, who live on the
surface and enjoy all the pleasures the world has to offer; ot the Morlocks who
live in the underworld working the machines that make the Eloi's world
possible, but occasionally when an Eloi gets too close to the Morlock's world,
the Eloi gets eaten for dinner.

[^AncientAsia]: The Greeks called Asia what we, today, would call Turkey and the Middle East; and possibly extends to parts of what we consider Modern Asia.
[^FutureKing]: Of course, this Legend was told more _after_ Alexander's conquest than Before it, so it's probably safe to presume he ruled over "all of Asia" before this legend predicted that he would.
[^gordian]: According to [Plutarch](https://www.livius.org/sources/content/plutarch/plutarchs-alexander/plutarch-on-the-gordian-knot/): "Aristobulus tells us it was easy for him to undo it, by only pulling the pin out of the pole, to which the yoke was tied, and afterwards drawing off the yoke itself from below." unlike all the other tellings in which Alexander destroys the rope and the knot in the process, here he breaks the cart.
[^death]: Somebody once told me that "Suicide is a permanent solution for a temporary problem," but ultimately it just causes more problems for everyone around you, while "solving" your problem. It's a transfer of problems.

[1]: https://youtu.be/VG6gaLYv17U
[2]: https://apnews.com/article/elon-musk-orbital-ai-data-centers-xai-spacex-92bc8ad95593bf3b5b801ddf36427194
